I am intimately familiar with [Kohn’s article](https://www.alfiekohn.org/article/case-grades/), and I have a lot to say about it. But first, some background. 

My eldest, Torin, has been the subject of a national educational experiment since 2015. Design thinking, place-based learning, and performance-based benchmarks were to be the cornerstones of a new, anti-grades model at GR Public Museum School, where Torin was one of the inaugural class of 2015. In 2016, GRPMS was one of ten schools awarded a prestigious 10 million dollar grant from the XQ Super School initiative. 

Torin was, in many ways, a model student. They’re a hard-working volunteer for our local community foundation, civic theater, various coalitions, and more. They’ve worked closely with XQ, and spoken on the importance of student voice at the Aurora Institute’s national conference. In many ways, Torin lives the XQ ideal of “engaging students as citizens.” This has *not* translated into educational achievement. They have been at risk of not graduating, and other students won’t graduate at all. My thoughts? Well, I’ll be honest:

**1. Unless the class is pass/fail, the concept of “freedom from grades” is disingenuous.** You will be giving me a letter grade. It will be based on a rubric, which should be shared. Is the grade based on participation? Effort? Improvement? Performance tasks? How you feel about me as a student? There is no liberation in being measured against a scale that one is not privy to.

**2. Grade-free systems can only work when 1) the entire culture has bought in or 2) students are not interested in further pursuits where grades are gatekeepers.** I see Kohn’s assertion that students of such systems are “indeed accepted by selective private colleges and large public universities — on the basis of narrative reports and detailed descriptions of the curriculum”. But this cannot (has not) played out to scale. US teachers are already overburdened without the addition of “narrative reports”; curriculum changes all the time; and staff turnover is high.  Worse, many application systems automatically reject apps that don’t meet hard-coded benchmarks for GPAs. Can a student fight through that? Maybe. But then we’re heading into the weedy territory of equity where the availability of time, resources, and wherewithal about complex systems is a function of privilege. 

**3. Classes “free” of grades can work marvelously… for students who are motivated by and have the time to be curious.** Personally, I’m motivated by the desire to be efficient and effective. I work a full time job and have a family and don’t have much time for the dead-ends that curiosity and experimentation can lead to. I’m also motivated by the desire to have a transcript that signals readiness for a Ph.D. program. (A successful class in R was specifically called out by an advisor I spoke with.) I want an A because the school requires an A. Will you write me a narrative if I get a C? Perhaps, but chances are no one will read it.

I have a lot more to say, but am restrained by your word count. But in conclusion, I have no faith nor confidence in a shadow grading system. I want to know what it means to “do well” and set my sights there. I have my own opinions about what it means to be a good student, but without knowing what yours are, I am concerned that my goals are on shaky ground. 
